
1) とき

とき connects two sentences and expresses the time when the state or action described in the main sentence exists or occurs. As shown in the table above, the forms of verbs, い-adjectives, な-adjectives and nouns connected to とき are the same as the forms when modifying nouns.

としょかんで　ほんを　かりる とき、カードが　いります。

When you borrow books from the library, you need a card.

つかいかた　わからないとき、わたしに　きて　ください。

When you don't know how to use it, ask me.

からだの　ちょうしが　わるい とき、「げんきちゃ」を　のみます。

When I'm not in good shape, I drink "Genki-cha."

ひまなとき、うちへ　あそぶに　きませんか。

Won't you come to my place when you are free?

つまが　びょうきのとき、かいしゃを　やすみます。

When my wife is sick, I take a day off work.

わかいとき、あまり　べんきょう　しません　でした。

When I was young, I did not study much.
#
2) dict. form とき / た-form とき

When the dictionary form of the predicate is put before とき, it indicates the non-completion of the action, and when the た-form of the predicate is put before とき, it indicates the completion of the action.

くにへ　かえるとき、かばんを　かいました。

I bought a bag when I was going back to my country.

くにへ　かえったとき、かばんを　かいました。

I bought a bag when I had went back to my country.

In the first example, かえる indicates that the action had not been completed, that the speaker had not reached his country yet and that he bought a bag somewhere on his way. In the second example, かえった indicates that the action was completed and the speaker bought a bag after arriving.
#
3) dict. form と, then ...

When as a result of a certain action, another action inevitably happens, と is used to connect the sentences.

この　ボタンを　おすと、おつりが　でます。

Press this button, and the change will come out.

みぎへ　まがると、ゆうびんきょくが　あります。

Tum to the right, and you will find the post office.

Expressions of one's will, hope, invitation or request cannot be used in the sentence which follows と.

In those cases, the conditional expression たら is used instead of と (see Lesson 25).
#
4) N(place)をV(verb of movement)

The particle を is used to denote the place where a person or a thing passes. The verb of movement such as さんぽう　します, わたります, あるきます, etc. are used in this pattern:

こうえんを　さんぽう　します。

I take a walk in the park. (L. 13)

みちを　わたります。

I cross the road.

こうさてんを　みぎへ　まがります。

I tum to the right at the intersection.
#