
1) Adjectives as predicates

Adjectives as predicates are used to say something is so-and-so. They are divided into two groups, い-adjectives and な-adjectives, according to the inflection. な-adjectives loose their な-ending when used as predicates.

ワットさんは　しんせつ　です。 Mr.Watt is kind.

ふじさんは　たかい　です。 Mt. Fuji is high.
#
2) negative adjectives

The negative form of な-adjectives as predicates is じゃ　ありません.

あそこは　しずか　じゃ　ありません。 It's not quiet there.

To make the negative form of an い- adjective, い at the end of the adjective is altered to くない.

この　ほんは　おもしろくない。 This book is not interesting.
#
3) Questions

Questions using adjective sentences are made in the same way as those using noun or verb sentences.

ペキンは　さむい　ですか。 Is it cold in Beijing?
#
4) Adjectives as modifiers

An adjective can be put before a noun to modify it. In this case, な-adjectives do not ommit the な-character.

ワットさんは　しんせつな　せんせいです。 Mr.Watt is a kind teacher.

ふじさんは　たかい　やま　です。 Mt. Fuji is a high mountain.
#
5) とても/あまり

とても and あまりare adverbs of degree. Both come before the adjectives they are modifying. とても means "very", あまり means "not very."

ペキンは　とても　さむい　です。Beijing is very cold.

シャンハイは　あまり　さむくない　です。 Shanghai is not very cold.
#
6) どう　ですか

This question is used to ask an impression or an opinion about a thing, place or person, etc., that the listener has experienced, visited or met.

にほんの　せいかつは　どう　ですか。How is the life in Japan?
#
7) Aは　どんな B　ですか

When the speaker wants the listener to describe or explain A, this question pattern is used. B denotes the category A belongs to.

ならは　どんな　まち　ですか。What kind of town is Nara?

ふるい　まち　です。 It's an old town.
#
8) が

が is a conjunctive particle, meaning "but." It is used to link sentences.

にほんの　たべものは　おいしい　ですが、　たきい　です。Japanese food is tasty, but expensive.
#
9) どれ

This interrogative is used to ask the listener to choose or designate one from more than two things concretely shown or named.

ミラーさんの　かさは　どれ　ですか。 Which is Mr. Miller's umbrella?

あの　あおい　かさ　です。That blue one is.
#