
1) plain formと おもいます - I think that...

The ideas or information expressed with おもいます are indicated by the particle と.

1.1 When expressing conjecture

あした　あめが　ふると　おもいます。 I think it will rain tomorrow.

テレサちゃんは　もう　ねたと　おもいます。I think Teresa has already gone to bed.

When the content of conjecture is negative in nature, make the sentence before と negative.

ミラーさんは　この　ニュースを　しって　いますか？

いいえ、たぶん　しってないと　おもいます。

Does Mr. Miller know this news?

···No, I don't think he does.

1.2 When expressing one's opinion

にほんは　ぶっかが　たかいと　おもいます。

I think that prices are high in Japan.

The expression ~に　ついて　どう　おもいますか is used to ask someone's opinion. と is not necessary after どう.

あたらしい　くうこうに　ついて　どう　おもいますか。

What do you think of the new airport?

Agreement or disagreement with other people's opinions can be expressed as follows.

わたしも　そう　おもいます。 I think so, too.

わたしは　そう[は]　おもいません。 I don't think so.
#
2) "S"/plain form と　いいます

To say ".."

The content expressed with いいます is indicated by the particle と.

ねる　まえに　「おやすみなさい」と　いいます。

We say "Good night" before going to bed.

When quoting directly what someone says or said, repeat exactly what they say as in the following structure.

ミラーさんは 「らいしゅう　とうきょうへ　しゅっちょう　します」と　いいました。

Mr. Miller said "I will go to Tokyo on a business trip next week."

When quoting indirectly what someone says or said, the plain form is used before と. The tense of the quoted sentence is not affected by the tense of the main sentence.

みらーさんは　らいしゅう　とうきょうへ　しゅっちょう　すると　いいました。

Mr. Miller said that he would go to Tokyo on a business trip next week.
#
3) でしょう？

When the speaker expects that the listener has some knowledge on the topic being discussed and that the listener will agree with the speaker's view, でしょう is said with a rising intonation to confirm the listener's agreement.

あした　パーティーに　いくでしょう？

ええ、いきます。

You are going to the party tomorrow, aren't you?

···Yes, I am.
#
4) A(place)で　Bが　あります

When B expresses such events as a party, concert, festival, incident, disaster and so on, あります means "to take place" or "to be held."

とうきょうで　にほんと　ブラジルの　サッカーの　しあいが　あります。

A football game between Japan and Brazil will be held in Tokyo.
#
5) N (occasion) で

When some action takes place on a certain occasion, that occasion is followed by で.

かいぎで　いけんを　いいましたか。

Did you give your opinion at the meeting?
#
6) Nでも　V

でも is used to give an example out of things of the same kind when one one makes a suggestion.

ちょっと　ビールでも　のみませんか。

Shall we drink beer or something?
#
7) Vない-form ないと。。

This expression is made by omitting いけません from V ない-form ないと いけません. V ない-form ないと　いけません is similar to V ない-form なければ　なりません(Lesson 17).

もう　かえらないと。

I have to go home now.
#