
1) Nが　あります / わかります

Nが　すき　です / きらい　です /じょうず　です / へた　です

The object of a transitive verb　(a verb that requires one or more objects) is marked with を. However, objects of the verbs あります and わかります are marked with が. Such adjectives as すき　です / きらい　です / じょうず　です / へた　です require objects, and these are marked with が too. The verbs and adjectives whose objects are marked with が are those kinds that describe preference, ability, possession and the like.

わたしは　イタリア　りょうりが　すき　です。 I like Italian food.

わたしは　にほんご　が わかります。 I understand Japanese.

わたしは　くるまが　あります。 I have a car.
#
2) どんな N

Other than the usage you learned in Lesson 8, どんな is also used to ask the listener to name one from a group which the noun after どんな denotes.

どんな　スポーツが　すき　ですか What sports do you like?
#
3) よく / だいたい / たくさん / すこし / あまり / ぜんぜん

These adverbs are put before verbs to modify them.

えいごが　よく　わかります。I understand English very well.

えいごが　だいたい　わかります。I mostly understand English.

えいごが　すこし　わかります。I understand English a little.

えいごが　あまり　わかりません。I don't understand English so well.

おかねが　たくさん　あります。 I have a lot of money.

おかねが　ぜんぜん　ありません。 I don't have any money.

すこし and ぜんぜん can also modify adjectives.

ここは　すこし　さむいです。 It's a little cold here.

あの　えいがは　ぜんぜん　おもしろくない　です。That movie is not interesting at all.
#
4 ) S から S

から connects two sentences together to denote a causal relationship. The first sentence is the reason for second one.

じかんが　ありませんから、しんぶんを　よみません。

Because I don't have time, I don't read the newspaper.

You can also state the outcome first and add the reason after it.

しんぶんを　よみません。じかんが　ありませんから。

I don't read the newspaper. Because I have no time.
#
5) どうして

The interrogative どうして is used to ask a reason. The answer needs から at the end.

どうして　しんぶんを　よみませんか。Why don't you read a newspaper?

じかんが　ありませんから。Because I don't have time.

The question どうして　ですか is also used to ask the reason for what the other person has said.

わたしは　はやく　かえります。I'll go home early today.

どうして　ですか。Why?

こどもの　たんじょうび　ですから。Because today's my child's birthday.
#