
1) Saying numbers

ひとつ、ふたつ。。。とお

These words are used to count things up to ten. Eleven and higher are counted by using the numbers themselves.
#
2) Counter Suffixes

When counting some sorts of things or expressing the quantity of things, counter suffixes are attached after the numbers.

-にん / -人 number of people except for one and two

ひとり and ふたり are used for one and two.

 4人(four people) is read よにん

-だい / -台 number of machines or vehicles like cars and bicycles

−まい / −枚 number of thin or flat things such as paper, dishes, shirts, CDs, etc.

−かい / −回 times

−ふん / −分 minutes

−じかん / −時間 hours

−にち / −日 days

The number of days takes the counter suffix にち. However, from two to ten, the same words as used for dates are used.

("One day" is いちにち, "two days" is ふつか, .... , "ten days" is とおか)

−しゅうかん / −週間 weeks

−かげつ / −か月 months

−ねん / −年 years

Quantifiers (numbers with counter suffixes) are usually put before the verbs they modify. However, this is not always the case with length of time .

りんごを　４つ(よっつ)　かいました。 We bought four apples.

がいこくじんの　がくせいが　 2人(ふたにん)　います。There are two foreign students.

くにで　２か月(にかげつ)　にほんごを　べんきょうしました。I studied Japanese for two months in my country.
#
3) Interrogatives

いくつ

いくつ is used to ask how many about things which are counted as ひとつ、ふたつ、....

みかんを　いくつ　かいましたか。How many mandarin oranges did you buy?

 4つ(よっつ)　かいました。I bought eight.

なん

なん is used with a counter suffix to ask how many.

この かいしゃに がいこくじんが なんにん いますか。How many foreigners are there in this company?

どのくらい

どのくらい is used to ask the length of time something takes.

どのくらい にほんごを べんきょうしましたか。How long did you study Japanese?

くらい

くらい is added after quantifiers to mean "about."

がっこうに せんせいが 三十くらい(さんじゅうくらい) います。There are about thirty teachers in our school.

4) Quantifier (period) に −かい verb

With this expression you can say how often you do something.

 １か月に(いっかげつ)　2回(にかい)　えいがを　みます。 I go to see movies twice a month.
#
5) Quantifier だけ/ Nだけ

だけ means "only." It is added after quantifiers or nouns to express that there is no more or nothing (no one) else.

やすみは　にちようびだけ　です。I only have Sundays off.
#