
1) Verb dictionary form

Verbs are given in this form in the dictionary.

Group I

In the verbs of this group the last sound of the ます-form is always in the い-line. Replace it with the sound in the う-line to make the dictionary form.

Group II

Attach る to the ます-form.

Group III

します becomes する and きます becomes くる.
#
2) できます

This verb is used to describe ability or possibility.
#
2.1) N が できます

Nouns placed before が mostly express actions such as driving a car, shopping, skiing, dancing, etc. Nouns such as にほんご, which is associated with the action はなす can also be used here.

ミラさんは　にほんごが　できます。

Mr. Miller can speak Japanese.

ことしは　スキーが　できます。

We can ski this year.
#
2.2) V ことが　できます

When a verb is used to describe ability or possibility, こと is attached to the dictionary form and が できます is put after that.

ミラさんは　[かんじを　よむこと]が　できます。

Mr. Miller can read Kanji.

[カードで　はらうこと]が　できます。

You can pay by credit card.
#
3) わたしの　しゅみは[dict. form+こと]　です。

The dictionary form + こと can express the content of hobbies more concretely than the noun alone can do.

わたしの　しゅみは　おんがく　です。 My hobby is music.

わたしの　しゅみは　おんがくを　きくこと　です。My hobby is listening to music.
#
4) A まえに、B

This sentence pattern indicates that action B occurs before action A takes place.
#
4.1) V1(dict. form)まえに、V2

This pattern is used when A is a verb. The tense of V1 is always the dictionary form, independent from the tense of V2.

にほんへ　くる　まえに、にほんごを　べんきょうしました。

I studied Japanese before I came to Japan.
#
4.2) Nの まえに、V

This pattern is used when A is a noun. It is used with nouns which express or imply actions.

しょくじの　まえに、てを　あらいます。

I wash my hands before eating.
#
4.3) Quantifier まえに

When まえに comes after a quantifier, の is not necessary.

たなかさんは　１じかん　まえに　でかきました。

Mr. Tanaka left an hour ago.
#
5) なかなか

When なかなか is accompanied by a negative expression, it means "not easily" or "not as expected."

にほんでは　なかなか　うまを　みることが　できません。

In Japan we can rarely see horses.

[Note] はof にほんでは is attached to で to emphasize the location or area under discussion.
#
6) ぜひ

ぜひ is used with expressions of hope and request such as ほしいです, ます-form たい です and て-form ください and emphasizes the meaning of these expressions.

ぜひ　ほっかいどへ　いきたいです。

I want to go to Hokkaido very much.

ぜひ　あそびに　きてく　ださい。

Please come to my place.
#