
1) plain past form-ら If ...

When ら is attached to the past plain form of verbs, adjectives, etc., it changes the preceding clause into a conditional expression.

おかなが　あったら、りょこうします。

If I had money, I would travel.

じかんが　なかったら、テレビを　みません。

If I don't have time, I will not watch TV.

やすかったら、パソコンを　かいたいです。

If it's inexpensive, I want to buy a personal computer.

ひまだったら、てつだって　ください。

If you are free, please give me a hand.
#
2) た-form ら,.. When ... / After...

This pattern is used to express that a certain action will be done or a certain situation will appear when a matter, action or state which is sure to happen in the future has been completed or achieved. The main sentence is always in the present tense.

 １０じに なったら、でかけましょう。

Let's go out when it gets to ten.

うちへ かえったら、すぐ　シャワーを　あびます。

I take a shower soon after I return home.
#
3) Even if...

Even if...

This expression is used to present a reverse condition. Contrary to plain past form ら, this expression is used when an action which is expected to be taken or an event which is expected to happen naturally under the given circumstances does not materialize or a thing turns out in a way opposite to a socially accepted idea.

あめが　ふっても、せんたくします。

Even if it rains, I'll do the laundry.

べんりでも、パソコンを　つかいません。

Even if a personal computer is useful, I won't use it.

にちようびでも、はたらきます。

Even if it is Sunday, I will work.
#
4) もしand いくら

もし is used in a sentence in the plain past form to indicate beforehand that the sentence is going to present a condition, while いくら is used with ても to do the same. もし implies that an emphasis is on the speaker's supposition while いくら is meant to stress the degree of conditionality.

もし　１おく円　あったら、いろいろ　くにを　りょこうしたい　です。

If I had 100 million yen, I would want to travel to various countries.

いくら　かんがえても、わかりません。

No matter how much I think, I can't understand this.

いくら　たかくても、かいます。

No matter how expensive it is, I will buy it.
#
5) Nが

As mentioned in Lesson 16, the subject of a subordinate clause is indicated by が In subordinate clauses using たら, ても, とき, と, まえに etc., in addition to から, the subject is indicated by が as shown below.

ともだちが　くる　まえに、へやを　そうじします。

I will clean my room before my friends come. (L. 18)

つまが　びょうきのとき、かいしゃを　やすみます。

When my wife is sick, I take a day off work. (L. 23)

ともだちが　やくそくの　じかんに　こなかったら、どう　しますか。

If your friends don't come on time, what will you do? (L. 25)
#