
1) くれます

You learned that あげます means "give" in Lesson 7. This verb cannot be used when somebody else gives something to the speaker or the speaker's family, etc.(X さとうさんは　わたしに　クリスマスカードを　あげました). In this case くれます is used.

わたしは　さとうさんに　はなを　あげました。

I gave flowers to Ms. Sato.

さとうさんは　わたしに　はなを　くれました。

Ms. Sato gave flowers to me.
#
2) て-form あげます / もらいます / くれます

あげます、もらいます and くれます are also used to refer to the giving and receiving of actions. They indicate who is doing that act for whom, while also expressing a sense of goodwill or gratitude. In this case, the act is expressed by the て-form.
#
2.1) て-form あげます

This indicates that one does something for somebody with a sense of goodwill.

わたしは　きむらさんに　ほんを　かして　あげました。

I lent Ms. Kimura a book.

When the speaker is the actor and the listener is the receiver of the act, this expression could give the impression that the speaker is being patronizing. You are, therefore, advised to avoid using this expression directly to someone whom you do not know very well or who is senior or superior to you. You may use it to someone with whom you have a very close, friendly relationship.

When you offer assistance to someone who is not very close, ます-form ましょうか(see Lesson 14, 6) is used instead:

てつだいましょうか。May I help you?
#
2.2) て-form もらいます

わたしは　やまださんに　としょかんの　でんわばんごうを　おしえて　もらいました。

Mr. Yamada told me the telephone number of the library.

This expression conveys a sense of gratitude on the part of those who receive a favor.
#
2.3) て-form くれます

ははは　[わたしに]　セーターを　おくって　くれました。

My mother sent me a sweater.

Like て-form もらいます, this expression also conveys a sense of gratitude on the part of those who receive a favor. The difference is that もらいます(to get) has the receiver as the subject of the sentence, while くれます(to give) has the actor as the subject of the sentence. The receiver of the act in the latter case is often the speaker and is often omitted.
#
3) N(person)が V

すてきな　ネクタイ　ですね。

That's a nice tie, isn't it?

···ええ、さとうさんが　くれました。

···Yes. Ms. Sato gave it to me.

You present a topic, saying すてきな ネクタイ ですね. Responding to it, your partner in conversation gives a piece of information on the topic which is unknown to you. The subject of the sentence giving new information is indicated by が.
#
4) Interrogative が V

You learned that when the subject is questioned, it is indicated by が in あります/います sentences (Lesson 10) and adjective sentences (Lesson 12). This is also the case for verb sentences.

だれが　てつだいに　いきますか。

Who will go to give him a hand?

..カリナさんが　いきます。

···Ms. Karina will.
#